Matthieu,

Veuillez trouvez ci-dessous l'exercice à réaliser pour le poste de Data Scientist chez nous.

Context
Every time a user browses an eligible web page, we have to decide whether to display an ad video or not.

If the video is displayed, then we will incur a fixed cost. However, we will benefit from a revenue only if the video is watched a minimum number of seconds by the user.

Thus, there are three possible cases:

We do not display the video: Cost=0, Revenue=0, Profit=0
We display a video that is not watched long enough: Cost>0, Revenue=0, Profit=-Cost
We display a video that is watched long enough: Cost>0, Revenue>0, Profit=Revenue-Cost
Log description
aft100k.csv.zip

You will find attached a csv file of 100000 examples of video ad displays. This log contains the following columns:

creative_id: A unique identifier of the video that has been displayed to the user
user_operating_system: The user Operating System (OS)
user_device: The user device type
average_seconds_played: The average number of seconds the user usually watches our videos (only if we already know the user, based on the user history)
cost: The cost we had to pay to display the video
revenue: The revenue generated by this video when it has been watched


Preliminary questions
The margin being defined as (revenue - cost) / revenue, what is our global margin based on this log?
With spark
Can you think of other interesting metrics to optimize?
Temps visionnage / cost
What are the most profitable Operating Systems?
With spark too, (key = systems) calculate the margin for all systems.

Machine learning questions
How would you use this historical data to predict the event 'we benefit from a revenue' (ie revenue > 0) in a dataset where the revenue is not known yet?
Tries Random forest, Neural network and matrice factorisation
Compute the prediction accuracy of a well chosen algorithm and comment the results. Do not hesitate to describe your methodology.


To analyse the data, you can use any framework of your choice (Python, R, Spark, Excel, Matlab, ...)

Don't spend more than a few hours on this exercise. The goal is not to design the perfect solution but to see your way of using machine learning tools.

We strongly encourage you to report all the things you have tried, even if the results weren't what you expected.

Please send your answers (including graphs if relevant) in a single pdf file to technical-test@teads.tv

